providers/akamaiedgedns @svernick
providers/autodns @arnoschoon
providers/axfrddns @hnrgrgr
providers/azuredns @vatsalyagoel
providers/bind @tlimoncelli
providers/cloudflare @tresni
providers/cloudns @pragmaton
providers/cscglobal @mikenz
providers/desec @D3luxee
providers/digitalocean @Deraen
providers/dnsimple @onlyhavecans
providers/dnsmadeeasy @vojtad
providers/doh @mikenz
providers/domainnameshop @SimenBai
providers/easyname @tresni
providers/exoscale @pierre-emmanuelJ
providers/gandiv5 @TomOnTime
providers/gcore @xddxdd
providers/gcloud @riyadhalnur
providers/hedns @rblenkinsopp
providers/hetzner @das7pad
providers/hexonet @papakai
providers/hostingde @juliusrickert
providers/internetbs @pragmaton
providers/inwx @patschi
providers/msdns @tlimoncelli
providers/linode @koesie10
providers/namecheap @captncraig
# providers/namedotcom NEEDS VOLUNTEER
providers/netcup @kordianbruck
providers/netlify @SphericalKat
providers/ns1 @costasd
providers/opensrs @philhug
providers/oracle @kallsyms
providers/route53 @tresni
providers/rwth @mistererwin
# providers/softlayer NEEDS VOLUNTEER
providers/vultr @pgaskin
providers/ovh @masterzen
providers/powerdns @jpbede
providers/packetframe @hamptonmoore
providers/porkbun @imlonghao
providers/transip @blackshadev
